Now what is graphql? To really explain it,
let's compare it to a rest API which we already learned about. A rest
API is a stateless client independent API for exchanging data,
so it's a node express application or a node with any framework application of course that we build
to exchange data.
We don't render views, we don't store sessions, we don't care about the client,
we only get requests, parse the data and return responses with data,
typically json data. A Graphql API is generally not that different,
it's also a stateless client independent API for exchanging data
but and that's the important part of course, with higher query flexibility and to understand that, let's
look at some rest API limitations. Let's say in our rest API, we have an endpoint that looks like that,
we can send a get request to /post
and as you might imagine this would fetch us a post, let's say from the database but could also be
from a file or anything like that of course
and this is how a post might look like.
Now we returned that to the client and everyone is happy
but what if we actually only need the title and ID on the client?
What if we don't need the content or we don't need the creator data? We can of course have many scenarios
where we use one and the same endpoint in our frontend application,
so in our single page application or our mobile application and in one place, on one page, we might need
title and content, on the other page, we might need content and creator. How can we solve that?
Well solution one is of course to simply create more endpoints that return the different types of data.
We can create a new rest API endpoint, for example sending a get request to post-slim to only return
title and ID.
Now obviously by the way, you could also of course use the same endpoint all the time and just parse or
filter out the data you need on the frontend
but then you sending a lot of unnecessary data over the wire which is an issue, especially when working
with mobile devices.
So our solution could be to simply create more endpoints that simply return the data you need for each
of these endpoints.
The problem is you'll have a lot of endpoints and you'll have to update them continuously and you also
have a very unflexible solution here. If your frontend engineers and in bigger projects you typically
work in different teams, if they need more data on a new page,
they come to you as a backend developer and ask you to give them an endpoint that returns that data
and they're stuck in their frontend development until you edit this. So fast iteration on the frontend
is made harder
and on the other hand, you on the backend continuously have to add new endpoints to cater for the needs
of your frontend engineers.
So this is not really ideal, solution two could be to use query parameters. On your existing endpoints,
you could accept query parameters like data equals slim.
Now obviously that is an option but just as with the first solution, you always have to add it so that
your frontend engineers can continue and you have this dependency between frontend and backend.
Additionally your API might become pretty hard to understand because it might not be clear which query
parameters can I set, which values can I set on these query parameters,
so this is also not ideal. Ideal for apps where you often have different data requirements on different
pages is to use graphql. There
you don't have the problems I described before because there as you will learn, you have a rich query
language that you use in your frontend to send it to the backend which is then parsed on the backend
and dynamically retrieves just the data you need,
so it's almost like a database query language which you use on the backend like SQL or mongodb
query language, almost like something like this for the frontend,
so which you put into the request you send to the backend.
Now that is the idea but how does graphql work then?
Well we get our client, we got our server and on the server, you generally have your logic for interacting
with the database, with files,
anything like that.
Now what do you send from client to server? In a graphql world,
you only send one kind of request and that is a post request to graphql, /graphql.
So you only have one single endpoint where you send your http requests to, even for getting data
and why is that?
Well for a post request, you can add a request body and that request body will contain the query expression,
graphql defines its own query language and I will show you where to learn more throughout this module
of course and you use that query language, you put it into a request body and you just can't send request
bodies on get requests for example,
so you put your query language expression into that request body and that will be parsed on the server
to then do some magic on it and return you just the data you want.
That is the idea behind graphql.
Now such a graphql would typically look something like this,
it's a json object-like structure where you have an operation type, query would be for getting data,
you also have other types like mutation for editing or deleting or inserting data or subscriptions for
setting up real time data subscriptions using web sockets.
You also have the endpoints
you could call them or the commands you can execute and you define them as a developer on your backend,
the available endpoints and then the fields you want to extract and that is the flexible part because
you could in one place get the user with just a name and in another place, you could get name, age and
email,
so that is exactly what you put into your query which you send to your backend which is then parsed
there. Now regarding these three operation types, as I mentioned we got a query, there
we retrieve data and we use a post request for that
but if we want to compare it to the rest API world, then this would be your equivalent to sending a get
request to some path there.
We also got mutations which basically are used for everything that changes data,
so what you previously handled with post, put, patch and delete requests and subscriptions as I mentioned
set up real time connections
via web sockets, we'll not focus on that
in this module because this is no graphql course and indeed you can create whole courses on graphql,
here
I want to focus on the core features.
So to sum it up, in a big picture, we have our client, we send a request to that single graphql
endpoint on our server
and then there and this is the part you will do with me in this module,
there you set up your definitions for queries, mutations and possibly also subscriptions. In these definitions,
you use type definitions because graphql uses a typed query language which means you define the
types of data you work with, the types of data you return in a query and so on
and these endpoints you define here,
so these queries and mutations and subscriptions you define, these are connected to so-called resolvers
which are functions that contain your server side logic. And if you compare that to a rest API, the definitions
would be your routes and the resolvers would be your controllers and that is how you can look at
graphql and this is how we will implement it.
So to sum it up, it's a normal node and possibly express server,
of course you are also not limited to using expressjs, you're also not limited to using node by the
way, the graphql language approach can be used with any programming language
just as rest APIs could but this is a node course of course
so we'll focus on that.
You have one single endpoint,
typically /graphql though you could change this of course.
You only use post requests because you put that query expression into the request body and you have
resolvers on the server side that analyze that request body and then do something with your data based
on the query expression you had in that body and we'll use third party packages for that parsing and
so on.
So posting for getting data, that is the most confusing thing you typically have when diving into
graphql,
yes this is what we do,
this is what is ok here
because we describe that data we want to get in the request body.
Now that was a lot of theory,
let's see it in action.